So in the last lessons we learned the two main hooks that we have access to and react now.
There are other hooks of course but the two main hooks are you state and use effect.
So let's use them and change our components so that we use those hooks in place of perhaps class components
that can just simply be functional components.
So the first one we're going to look at is our silent component.
Now in this component we see that all we really do is leverage our state in order to set the values
of our form so that we can fire it off.
So let's change this over to using a used state hook so let's bring in our used state hook and the first
thing we know that we don't need anymore is this constructor.
So let's get rid of our constructor and convert our class itself into this hook as well.
So of course any methods that we had on will now have to be their own methods which is perfectly fine
and then we know that what we're using now is our set credentials or sorry our user credentials and
set credentials which is our used state passing in let's say it was e mail which will be default empty
string and password which is default empty string.
So all we did here was convert r this dot state over to you state.
Now we're still want to use our object because we want our method to still work.
So we'll see how we can change that.
Well first we know we're getting this dot email sign and no longer from props but from the props that
we pass it.
Right.
So we don't have this stock props anymore.
Instead we d structure like this and instead of state now we get email and password from user credentials
and pretty much our handle submit is now up to date with what we had before now instead of Klein this
dot said state we're going to call set credentials right.
And we passed the object we want our state to be so as before we know the name and the value that we're
getting in are going to be dynamic based on the actual form input that we're updating so all we need
to do is actually very similar to when we return our reduced value.
We want to spread it in all of our user credentials and then we're just going to update the value that
actually needs to be changed and this will pretty much allow us to use our handle change method the
way we have it as well we see that we get our Google sign and start from the Stop props.
So we just make sure to restructure it when it comes in as our props.
And then we remove our render
and now we just update our methods so that instead of calling this dot handle submit we just call the
respective method
and instead of calling this dot state DOT password or this dot state DOT email we can also make sure
to restructure off the appropriate values now because we know we're going to use them in these user
credentials as well we can actually do this D structure a little higher right and now we'll have access
inside of our return.
So now if we just pass an email and password
we should have actually pretty much the same component
so let's test and see if this actually worked so we sign up we go back to our component and what we
change was our signing component.
Chain of clothes that if we hit our sign and we see we trigger a sign and start and our sign is success
worth so our component is pretty well converted so there were just a couple of things to keep in mind
when doing the conversion.
Mainly that instead of destructing off this props we just destructor inside of our function and if she
Asian right.
Just like we would when we did structure any props off of a functional component.
And then we structure off of our new state value.
So that's pretty much it.
That was our sign and component.
Now let's do the same thing for our sign up component very similarly.
The sign up component pretty much calls you state as we did with our sign a component.
So let's bring it in
and let's convert our sign up over to a functional component we can copy this object over as well
and similarly right.
We can pretty much call it use our credentials set user credentials because that's pretty much what
they are.
And then we'll just instantiate with what we had before us our state.
Now if you wanted to for example just instantiate four different states for each value and have display
name email password confirmed password as their own value with their own set value you can totally do
that.
But I prefer to keep it this way just because our method already pretty much does the same thing right.
In my opinion there are less functions that we have to use or write.
Now we will D structure off this from props instead of calling this stuff prompts.
We will get this from user credentials and in fact we're probably going to need this in multiple places
in our app
and instead of calling this dot sets day we'll call set user credentials.
And similarly it will spread in any user credentials.
And then update the respective the correct value that we need to use it for.
We don't need this from state anymore.
We don't need a render anymore
and we just need to make sure that we're not referencing the wrong methods.
So we got to of course update these as well to their own functions whereas before they were class methods
and now we can just remove this dot
and that's pretty much the conversion.
So if we go back to our application we can sign out again and let's sign in with the new user or sign
up with the new user.
So let's just say m is easy right.
Easy.
Email dot com just fake emails before we sign up an upstart sign of success sign and success.
Our component works the same.
Our sagas are still working.
Everything is properly converted so that's pretty easy.
With our you state hook that we just learned we're able to quickly convert our components over into
these functional components that call you state instead.
And it was a pretty simple change right.
It wasn't that significant.
Now if we need to leverage more state right we can simply just either make new states using you state
or if we want to more properties we can just add them here.
So all in all it was pretty easy to make this chain now and the next lesson.
Let's actually see a little bit more of a complicated case in using use effect.